test_name 	 object-test-incomplete-void-safety
test_description Object test cannot be optimized away in incompletely void-safe code.

copy_raw	library.e $CLUSTER library.e
copy_raw	test.e $CLUSTER test.e

define	BASE_ECF	base.ecf
define	BASE_PRECOMPILE	$PRECOMPILED_BASE
define	LIBRARY_VOID_SAFETY none
copy_sub	library.ecf $TEST library.ecf

define	VOID_SAFETY none
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace

compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work 	NONE 	exec_output_m
execute_result 	ok
compare		exec_output_m output

compile_frozen
compile_result 	ok
c_compile_work
c_compile_result ok
execute_work 	NONE 	exec_output_w
execute_result 	ok
compare		exec_output_w output

compile_final
compile_result ok
c_compile_final
c_compile_result ok
execute_final NONE 	exec_output_f
execute_result ok
compare exec_output_f output

cleanup_compile
define	BASE_ECF	base-safe.ecf
define	BASE_PRECOMPILE	$PRECOMPILED_BASE_SAFE
define	LIBRARY_VOID_SAFETY all
copy_sub	library.ecf $TEST library.ecf

define	VOID_SAFETY conformance
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace

compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work 	NONE 	exec_output_m
execute_result 	ok
compare		exec_output_m output

compile_frozen
compile_result 	ok
c_compile_work
c_compile_result ok
execute_work 	NONE 	exec_output_w
execute_result 	ok
compare		exec_output_w output

compile_final
compile_result ok
c_compile_final
c_compile_result ok
execute_final NONE 	exec_output_f
execute_result ok
compare exec_output_f output

define	VOID_SAFETY initialization
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace

compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work 	NONE 	exec_output_m
execute_result 	ok
compare		exec_output_m output

compile_frozen
compile_result 	ok
c_compile_work
c_compile_result ok
execute_work 	NONE 	exec_output_w
execute_result 	ok
compare		exec_output_w output

compile_final
compile_result ok
c_compile_final
c_compile_result ok
execute_final NONE 	exec_output_f
execute_result ok
compare exec_output_f output

define	VOID_SAFETY transitional
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace

compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work 	NONE 	exec_output_m
execute_result 	ok
compare		exec_output_m output

compile_frozen
compile_result 	ok
c_compile_work
c_compile_result ok
execute_work 	NONE 	exec_output_w
execute_result 	ok
compare		exec_output_w output

compile_final
compile_result ok
c_compile_final
c_compile_result ok
execute_final NONE 	exec_output_f
execute_result ok
compare exec_output_f output

define	VOID_SAFETY all
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace

compile_melted
compile_result	validity_error TEST VEVI

test_end
