test_name 	 change-unique-in-inspect
test_description Recompilation should take care about any unique constants that might change their value.

copy_sub 	 Ace $TEST Ace

define C1 "--"
define C2 "--"
define C3 "--"
define C4 "--"
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_frozen
compile_result 	 ok
c_compile_work
c_compile_result ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_1
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_1 output

define C1 ""
define C2 "--"
define C3 "--"
define C4 "--"
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_2
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_2 output

define C1 ""
define C2 ""
define C3 "--"
define C4 "--"
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_3
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_3 output

define C1 ""
define C2 ""
define C3 ""
define C4 "--"
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_4
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_4 output

define C1 ""
define C2 ""
define C3 ""
define C4 ""
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_5
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_5 output

define C1 ""
define C2 ""
define C3 ""
define C4 ""
define C5 ""
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_6
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_6 output

define C1 ""
define C2 ""
define C3 ""
define C4 ""
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_7
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_7 output

define C1 ""
define C2 ""
define C3 ""
define C4 "--"
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_8
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_8 output

define C1 ""
define C2 ""
define C3 "--"
define C4 "--"
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_9
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_9 output

define C1 ""
define C2 "--"
define C3 "--"
define C4 "--"
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_10
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_10 output

define C1 "--"
define C2 "--"
define C3 "--"
define C4 "--"
define C5 "--"
copy_sub 	 a.e  $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub 	 b.e  $CLUSTER b.e
copy_sub 	 test.e  $CLUSTER test.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

execute_work	 NONE exec_output_11
execute_result	 ok
compare		 exec_output_11 output

test_end
