test_name effecting-from-inherited-external
test_description A deferred feature effected by an inherited external routine should result in correct IL code.

copy_raw b.e $CLUSTER b.e
copy_raw c.e $CLUSTER c.e
copy_raw d.e $CLUSTER d.e
copy_raw e.e $CLUSTER e.e
copy_raw i.e $CLUSTER i.e
copy_raw test.e $CLUSTER test.e

define DOTNET_NAMING_CONVENTION "false"
copy_sub Ace $TEST Ace

copy_raw aa.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aar.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw ab.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw abr.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw ac.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw acr.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw ad.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aeau.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aebu.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aecu.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aed.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aerar.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aerbr.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aercr.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aerd.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aeua.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aeub.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aeuc.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

define DOTNET_NAMING_CONVENTION "true"
copy_sub Ace $TEST Ace

copy_raw aa.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aar.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw ab.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw abr.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw ac.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw acr.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw ad.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aeau.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aebu.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aecu.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aed.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aerar.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aerbr.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aercr.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aerd.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aeua.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aeub.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

copy_raw aeuc.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result	ok
execute_work	NONE 	exec_output
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output output

test_end
