test_name validity-vfav2-basic
test_description Validity rules for bracket alias.

copy_sub Ace $TEST Ace
copy_raw test.e $CLUSTER test.e
copy_raw b.e    $CLUSTER b.e

-- Bracket alias: it should be a query

copy_raw cq01.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_melted
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_raw cq02.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_raw cq03.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_raw cq04.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_raw cq05.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_raw cq06.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_raw cq07.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

-- Bracket alias: it should have at least one argument

copy_raw ca01.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_raw ca02.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

-- Bracket alias: there should not be the same alias with 1 argument

define ARGS "x"
define COUNT "1"
copy_sub a.e $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub ab.e $CLUSTER ab.e

copy_sub cs01.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs02.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs03.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs04.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs05.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs06.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs07.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs08.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

-- Bracket alias: there should not be the same alias with 2 arguments

define ARGS "x, y"
define COUNT "2"
copy_sub a.e $CLUSTER a.e
copy_sub ab.e $CLUSTER ab.e

copy_sub cs01.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs02.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs03.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs04.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs05.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs06.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs07.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

copy_sub cs08.e $CLUSTER c.e
resume_compile
compile_result validity_error C VFAV(2)

test_end
