''' $Id: kitpost.man 78389 2004-11-30 00:17:17Z manus $
'''
'''  Copyright (c) 1991-1993, Raphael Manfredi
'''  
'''  You may redistribute only under the terms of the Artistic Licence,
'''  as specified in the README file that comes with the distribution.
'''  You may reuse parts of this distribution only within the terms of
'''  that same Artistic Licence; a copy of which may be found at the root
'''  of the source tree for dist 3.0.
'''
''' $Log$
''' Revision 1.1  2004/11/30 00:17:18  manus
''' Initial revision
'''
''' Revision 3.0.1.2  1995/05/12  11:58:09  ram
''' patch54: updated my e-mail address
'''
''' Revision 3.0.1.1  1994/05/06  13:55:01  ram
''' patch23: created
'''
.TH KITSEND 1 ram
.SH NAME
kitpost \- posts distribution kits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kitpost
[
.B \-hrV
] [
.B -H
.I file
] [
.B -D
.I desc
] [
.B -m
.I dest1,dest2
] [ 
.I kits
] [
.I newsgroups
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Kitpost
posts distribution kits made by \fImakedist\fR to some (source) newsgroups
specified on the command line. If you do not specify any kit list, then all the
kits are sent. Otherwise, only the specified kits will be (re)sent.
.PP
A kit list may include ranges, \fI1-10\fR specifying kits 1 through 10,
and \fI5-\fR meaning kits 5 up to the last one. You may also specify kit
numbers by separating them with commas or spaces, and even mix with ranges,
such as: \fI1 3 5-7 9\fR.
.PP
.I Kitpost
ensures correct \fIReferences:\fR lines are inserted in your postings so that
all parts but the first point to the root article. Threaded newsreaders and
end-users traditionally appreciate that.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by \fIkitpost\fR:
.TP 10
.B \-h
Print help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-m\fI dest1,destn\fR
Sends kits by e-mail to the specified recipients. This option may be used in
conjunction with newsgroup posting. It is mainly intended for sites where
direct posting to a moderated newsgroup is not allowed by \fIinews\fR. You may
thus send your kits to the newsgroup moderator in a form that will ease the
whole posting process.
.TP
.B \-r
Signals a repost.
.TP
\fB\-D\fI description\fR
Specify a description string that will be added to the subject line. Usually
a brief sentence (less than, say, 40 characters).
.TP
\fB\-H\fI file\fR
Specify a file to be used as header introduction in the first part of your
posting. Usually the root README file.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version number and exit.
.SH BUGS
Article cross-referencing is properly set-up only when the whole package is
(re)posted in one batch.
.PP
It is not currently possible to set-up the article headers manually or
better, interactively.
.SH AUTHOR
Raphael Manfredi <ram@hptnos02.grenoble.hp.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
makedist(1), kitsend(1).
