''' $Id: kitsend.man 78389 2004-11-30 00:17:17Z manus $
'''
'''  Copyright (c) 1991-1993, Raphael Manfredi
'''  
'''  You may redistribute only under the terms of the Artistic Licence,
'''  as specified in the README file that comes with the distribution.
'''  You may reuse parts of this distribution only within the terms of
'''  that same Artistic Licence; a copy of which may be found at the root
'''  of the source tree for dist 3.0.
'''
''' $Log$
''' Revision 1.1  2004/11/30 00:17:18  manus
''' Initial revision
'''
''' Revision 3.0.1.1  1994/05/06  14:00:11  ram
''' patch23: documented new -V and -h options
'''
''' Revision 3.0  1993/08/18  12:04:26  ram
''' Baseline for dist 3.0 netwide release.
'''
.TH KITSEND 1 ram
.SH NAME
kitsend \- sends distribution kits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kitsend
[
.B \-hV
] [ \fIkits\fR ] \fIrecipients\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Kitsend
sends distribution kits made by \fImakedist\fR to some recipients specified
on the command line. If you do not specify any kit list, then all the
kits are sent. Otherwise, only the specified kits will be (re)sent.
.PP
A kit list may include ranges, \fI1-10\fR specifying kits 1 through 10,
and \fI5-\fR meaning kits 5 up to the last one. You may also specify kit
numbers by separating them with commas or spaces, and even mix with ranges,
such as: \fI1 3 5-7 9\fR.
.PP
The \fB\-h\fR switch will print out the usage and \fB-V\fR will print
the version number.
.SH AUTHOR
Harlan Stenn <harlan@mumps.pfcs.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
makedist(1), kitpost(1).
