test_name validity-vfav4-basic
test_description Validity rules for semistrict operators.

-- Tests with normal class BOOLEAN

define EXCLUDE ""

copy_sub Ace $TEST Ace

-- Operator "and then"

define OPERATOR "and then"

copy_sub test.e $CLUSTER test.e
copy_sub b.e    $CLUSTER b.e

copy_sub co01.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_frozen
compile_result ok
c_compile_work
c_compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_and01
execute_result ok
compare exec_and01 output_and

copy_sub co02.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_melted
compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_and02
execute_result ok
compare exec_and02 output_and

copy_sub co03.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_melted
compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_and03
execute_result ok
compare exec_and03 output_and

-- Operator "or else"

define OPERATOR "or else"

copy_sub test.e $CLUSTER test.e
copy_sub b.e    $CLUSTER b.e

copy_sub co01.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_melted
compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_or01
execute_result ok
compare exec_or01 output_or

copy_sub co02.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_melted
compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_or02
execute_result ok
compare exec_or02 output_or

copy_sub co03.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_melted
compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_or03
execute_result ok
compare exec_or03 output_or

-- Operator "implies"

define OPERATOR "implies"

copy_sub test.e $CLUSTER test.e
copy_sub b.e    $CLUSTER b.e

copy_sub co01.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_melted
compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_implies01
execute_result ok
compare exec_implies01 output_implies

copy_sub co02.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_melted
compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_implies02
execute_result ok
compare exec_implies02 output_implies

copy_sub co03.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_melted
compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_implies03
execute_result ok
compare exec_implies03 output_implies

-- Tests with non-frozen class BOOLEAN

define EXCLUDE "<exclude>boolean.e</exclude>"

copy_sub Ace $TEST Ace
copy_raw boolean.e $CLUSTER boolean.e

-- Inheritance from BOOLEAN: error is reported twice because of implementation

copy_raw ci01.e $CLUSTER c.e
compile_frozen
compile_result ok
c_compile_work
c_compile_result ok
execute_work NONE exec_implies
execute_result ok
compare exec_implies output_implies

test_end
