
test_name 	 internal-search-crash
test_description Repeated compilations using a config file with many libraries and switching back and forth between all_classes="true" and all_classes="false" crashes the compiler in {SEARCH_TABLE}.internal_search

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "true"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

define		ALL_CLASSES "false"
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
compile_frozen
compile_result	ok

test_end

