test_name 	 clear-all-on-special
test_description Verify that `clear_all' on various kind of special works as indicated.

define VALUE 0
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
copy_raw	test.e $CLUSTER test.e
copy_raw	exp1.e $CLUSTER exp1.e
copy_raw	exp2.e $CLUSTER exp2.e
copy_raw	exp3.e $CLUSTER exp3.e
copy_raw	exp4.e $CLUSTER exp4.e
copy_raw	exp5.e $CLUSTER exp5.e
copy_raw	exp6.e $CLUSTER exp6.e
copy_raw	exp7.e $CLUSTER exp7.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

c_compile_work
c_compile_result ok

execute_work	NONE exec_output_w
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output_w output

compile_final
compile_result	ok

c_compile_final
c_compile_result ok

execute_final	NONE exec_output_f
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output_f output

define VALUE 10
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace

compile_final
compile_result	ok

c_compile_final
c_compile_result ok

execute_final	NONE exec_output_f
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output_f output

define VALUE 0
copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace
copy_raw	test.e $CLUSTER test.e
copy_raw	exp1.e $CLUSTER exp1.e
copy_raw	exp2.e $CLUSTER exp2.e
copy_raw	exp3.e $CLUSTER exp3.e
copy_raw	exp4.e $CLUSTER exp4.e
copy_raw	exp5.e $CLUSTER exp5.e
copy_raw	exp6.e $CLUSTER exp6.e
copy_raw	exp7.e $CLUSTER exp7.e

compile_melted
compile_result	ok

c_compile_work
c_compile_result ok

execute_work	NONE exec_output_w
execute_result	ok
compare		exec_output_w output


test_end
