test_name 	 identifier-scope-validity-recompilation
test_description Recompilation should not break the rule that an identifier cannot be reused in the scope where it is already used, including deep nesting in agents. See also test#valid294.

copy_sub	Ace $TEST Ace

define COMMENT_OUT_PARENT "--"
copy_sub	a.e $CLUSTER a.e
define COMMENT_OUT_CHILD "--"
copy_sub	test.e $CLUSTER test.e
compile_melted
compile_result 	 ok

define COMMENT_OUT_PARENT ""
copy_sub	a.e $CLUSTER a.e
compile_melted
compile_result 	 validity_error TEST VUOT(1):41 VOIT(2):43 FRESH_IDENTIFIER:45 VRFA:47 VRLE(1):49

define COMMENT_OUT_PARENT "--"
copy_sub	a.e $CLUSTER a.e
resume_compile
compile_result 	 ok

define COMMENT_OUT_CHILD ""
copy_sub	test.e $CLUSTER test.e
compile_melted
compile_result 	 validity_error TEST VUOT(1):42 VOIT(2):44 FRESH_IDENTIFIER:46 VRFA:48 VRLE(1):50

define COMMENT_OUT_CHILD "--"
copy_sub	test.e $CLUSTER test.e
resume_compile
compile_result 	 ok

define COMMENT_OUT_PARENT ""
copy_sub	a.e $CLUSTER a.e
define COMMENT_OUT_CHILD ""
copy_sub	test.e $CLUSTER test.e
compile_melted
compile_result 	 validity_error TEST VUOT(1):41 VUOT(1):42 VOIT(2):43 VOIT(2):44 FRESH_IDENTIFIER:45 FRESH_IDENTIFIER:46 VRFA:47 VRFA:48 VRLE(1):49 VRLE(1):50

define COMMENT_OUT_PARENT "--"
copy_sub	a.e $CLUSTER a.e
define COMMENT_OUT_CHILD "--"
copy_sub	test.e $CLUSTER test.e
resume_compile
compile_result 	 ok

test_end
